---
title: DurationFormat Advancement
event: TC39 Plenary
date: October 2021
theme: night
highlightTheme: monokai
---

## `DurationFormat` Advancement ⏲

### Ujjwal Sharma (@ryzokuken)

### TC39 October 2021

---

# Recap

---

## Introducing the new design 🆕

-   Works similarly to the old design for common edge cases:
    -   Easy to specify base style.
    -   All old styles supported.
    -   `"digital"` works as you'd expect out of the box.
    -   Truncating part of the value still _NOT_ supported (with a catch).

---

## Introducing the new design 🆕

-   New, improved semantics:
    -   Allow unit-specific style akin to `DateTimeFormat`.
    -   Allow per-unit display setting to always display certain units.
    -   Defaults that "just work".
    -   Better support for fractional values.

---

## Example 🔭

```javascript
new Intl.DurationFormat("en").format("P12Y34MT12M34S")
// 12 yr 34 mo 12 min 34 sec
new Intl.DurationFormat("en", { style: "digital" }).format("P12Y24MT12M24S")
// 12 y 34 m 12:34
new Intl.DurationFormat("en", { style: "digital", fractionalDigits: 2 }).format(
    "PT12M34.567S"
)
// 12:34.56
```

---

## Semantics: Highlights 📰

---

### Style 👗

-   There is a _base_ style. This is `"short"` by default.
-   Styles can be customized per-unit.
    -   The default style for any unit is determined by the value of the base style.

---

### Display 🖥️

-   You can configure when to display a particular unit.
    -   All zero units are hidden by default.
    -   When the style is explicitly specified, they are always displayed by default.

---

### Fractions 🔢

-   Consecutive units with the `"numeric"` style can be displayed as a decimal by using `fractionalDigits`.
-   Truncation of the value is not allowed in any way except for the truncation of the least significant bits via `fractionalDigits`.

---

## Open Questions ❓

-   Should second be the smallest unit accepted? ([#64](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/64))
    -   Answer: No, you can display all units until nanoseconds.
-   Should we support fractional minutes and hours? ([#65](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/65))
    -   Answer: Not yet, but it could be done in a follow-up if requested.

---

## Current Status

-   Spec review
    -   Justin Grant
    -   Frank Tang
    -   Michael Ficarra
    -   Ron Buckton
    -   Ross Kirsling
-   All comments addressed so far.
-   No outstanding normative comments.

---

# Stage 3?

---

# Thanks! 🙏
